<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic
  id="topic_rqw_bjz_kd">
  <title>Aikido Technique Components</title>
  <body>
    <p>Contains reusable parts of Aikido technique descriptions.</p>
    <section> <title>Attacks</title> <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>shomenuchi</dt>
        <dd> <p><ph
          id="shomenuchi">Uke strikes to the top of Nage's head</ph></p> </dd>
      </dlentry>
      </dl> </section>
    <section><title>Throws</title> <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>shihonage</dt>
        <dd> <p><ph
          id="shihonage"
          audience="beginner">Nage grab's Uke's wrist with the arm of the
          grabbed hand. As Nage steps across Uke's front, he grab's Uke's arm
          with his other hand just above the wrist, holding the arm much as he
          would hold a sword, twisting the arm slightly toward Nage's body (that
          is, rotating away from Nage's direction of forward movement). Nage
          takes another forward step with his back foot, raising Uke's arm above
          Nage's head. Nage lowers his hips to slide under Uke's raised arm,
          locking Uke's held arm against Nage's shoulder. Nage performs a
          <term>tenkai</term> away from Uke, bending Uke's wrist down toward the
          ground along the direction of Uke's spine. Nage performs a
          <term keyref="glossary.tsugiashi"/> and throws Uke's wrist down (not away), forcing
Uke into a backward roll.</ph></p> <p><ph
id="shihonage-expert"
audience="expert">Nage grab's Uke's wrist with the arm of the grabbed
hand. Nage slides deeply across Uke's front. As he slides he grab's
Uke's arm with his other hand just above the wrist, holding the arm
much as he would hold a sword, twisting the arm slightly toward Nage's
body and raising Uke's arm above Nage's head. Nage lowers his hips to
slide under Uke's raised arm, locking Uke's held arm against Nage's
shoulder. Nage performs a <term keyref="glossary.tenkai"/> away from Uke, bending
Uke's wrist down toward the ground along the direction of Uke's spine.
Nage performs a <term keyref="glossary.tsugiashi"/> and throws Uke's wrist down
(not away), forcing Uke into a backward roll.</ph></p> </dd>
      </dlentry>
      </dl> </section>
  </body>
</topic>
